 
[源码分析文章](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/c_1094189343643652096)



        Linuxthreads - POSIX 1003.1c kernel threads for Linux

        Copyright 1996 Xavier Leroy (Xavier.Leroy@inria.fr)


DESCRIPTION:

This is release 0.5 (BETA) of LinuxThreads, a BiCapitalized
implementation of the Posix 1003.1c "pthread" interface for Linux.

Several implementations of pthread are already available for Linux
(e.g. Chris Provenzano's implementation, which is part of recent
releases of the Linux C library), but they are all user-level: all
threads live within a single Linux process, which schedules the various
threads itself.

In contrast, LinuxThreads provides kernel-level threads: each thread
is a separate Unix process, sharing its address space with the other
threads through the new system call clone(). Scheduling between
threads is handled by the kernel scheduler, just like scheduling
between Unix processes.

The advantages of kernel-level threads over user-level threads are:

- supports multiprocessors;

- possibly smoother scheduling, since the same scheduler (the kernel's)
  handles both threads and other Unix processes;

- no special action needed to make blocking system call suspend only
  the calling thread, not all threads of the process (user-level
  threads usually rely on a combination of select() and jacketing of
  C library functions for system calls);

- as a consequence of the above, more efficient I/O and
  timer-based operations (no need for extra select() and gettimeofday()).

The disadvantages are:

- more expensive context switches between threads, at least when blocking
  on conditions and mutexes;

- thread creation is more expensive.


REQUIREMENTS:

- Linux version 2.0 and up (requires the new clone() system call
  and the new realtime scheduler).

- For Intel platforms: libc 5.2.18 or later is required.
  5.2.18 or 5.4.12 are recommended; 5.3.12 and 5.4.7 have problems
  (see below).

- Also supports glibc (a.k.a. libc 6), which actually comes with
  a specially-adapted version of this library.

- Currently supports Intel, Alpha, Sparc, Motorola 68k and MIPS platforms.

- Multiprocessors are supported.


INSTALLATION:

- Edit the Makefile, set the variables in the "Configuration" section.

- Do "make".

- Do "make install".


USING LINUXTHREADS:

        gcc -D_REENTRANT ... -lpthread

A complete set of manual pages is included. Also see the subdirectory
Examples/ for some sample programs.


STATUS:

- All functions in the Posix 1003.1c base interface implemented.
  Partial support for priority scheduling also available.

- For users of libc 5 (H.J.Lu's libc), a number of C library functions
  are reimplemented or wrapped to make them thread-safe, including:
  * malloc functions
  * stdio functions (define _REENTRANT before including <stdio.h>)
  * per-thread errno variable (define _REENTRANT before including <errno.h>)
  * directory reading functions (opendir(), etc)
  * sleep()
  * gmtime(), localtime()

  New library functions provided:
  * flockfile(), funlockfile(), ftrylockfile()
  * reentrant versions of network database functions (gethostbyname_r(), etc)
    and password functions (getpwnam_r(), etc).

  All versions of libc between 5.2.18 and 5.4.12 exclusive have
  problems with the per-thread errno variable. Symptoms include
  inability to do fdopen() on a pipe or socket. Either downgrade to
  5.2.18 or upgrade to 5.4.12 or above.

- libc 6 (glibc) provides much better thread support than libc 5,
  and comes with a specially-adapted version of LinuxThreads.
  For serious multithreaded programming, you should consider switching
  to libc 6.


WARNING:

Many existing libraries are not compatible with LinuxThreads,
either because they are not inherently thread-safe, or because they
have not been compiled with the -D_REENTRANT.

A prime example of the latter is Xlib. If you link it with
LinuxThreads, you'll probably get an "unknown 0 error" very
early. This is just a consequence of the Xlib binaries using the
global variable "errno" to fetch error codes, while LinuxThreads and
the C library use the per-thread "errno" location.

See the file README.Xfree3.2 for info on how to compile the Xfree 3.2
libraries to make them compatible with LinuxThreads.


KNOWN BUGS AND LIMITATIONS:

- Threads share pretty much everything they should share according
  to the standard: memory space, file descriptors, signal handlers,
  current working directory, etc. One thing that they do not share
  is their pid's and parent pid's. According to the standard, they
  should have the same, but that's one thing we cannot achieve
  in this implementation (until the CLONE_PID flag to clone() becomes
  usable).

- The current implementation uses the two signals SIGUSR1 and SIGUSR2,
  so user-level code cannot employ them. Ideally, there should be two
  signals reserved for this library. One signal is used for restarting
  threads blocked on mutexes or conditions; the other is for thread
  cancellation.

- The stacks for the threads are allocated high in the memory space,
  below the stack of the initial process, and spaced 2M apart.
  Stacks are allocated with the "grow on demand" flag, so they don't
  use much virtual space initially (4k, currently), but can grow
  up to 2M if needed.

  Reserving such a large address space for each thread means that,
  on a 32-bit architecture, no more than about 1000 threads can
  coexist (assuming a 2Gb address space for user processes),
  but this is reasonable, since each thread uses up one entry in the
  kernel's process table, which is usually limited to 512 processes.

  Another potential problem of the "grow on demand" scheme is that
  nothing prevents the user from mmap'ing something in the 2M address
  window reserved for a thread stack, possibly causing later extensions of
  that stack to fail. Mapping at fixed addresses should be avoided
  when using this library.

- Signal handling does not fully conform to the Posix standard,
  due to the fact that threads are here distinct processes that can be
  sent signals individually, so there's no notion of sending a signal
  to "the" process (the collection of all threads).
  More precisely, here is a summary of the standard requirements
  and how they are met by the implementation:

  1- Synchronous signals (generated by the thread execution, e.g. SIGFPE)
     are delivered to the thread that raised them.
     (OK.)

  2- A fatal asynchronous signal terminates all threads in the process.
     (OK. The thread manager notices when a thread dies on a signal
      and kills all other threads with the same signal.)

  3- If one or several threads are waiting on a signal using
     sigwait(), then that signal will be delivered to one of those threads.
     (No, it will be delivered to the thread it's been sent to, based
      on the pid.)

  4- An asynchronous signal will be delivered to one of the threads
     of the program which does not block the signal (it is unspecified
     which).
     (No, the signal is delivered to the thread it's been sent to,
      as in 3- above.

  5- The signal will be delivered to at most one thread.
     (OK, except for signals generated from the terminal or sent to
      the process group, which will be delivered to all threads.)

- The realtime extensions (scheduling control) have not been tested
  extensively. A known discrepancy with the POSIX standard is that
  multiple threads waiting on a mutex are not restarted in priority
  order when the mutex is unlocked: we just do first-suspended,
  first-restarted.

- The signal-safe semaphores (sem_post, etc) are not available on the
  386 nor on the Sparc because these architectures do not provide atomic
  compare-and-swap, neither load-reservation/store-conditional.
  Various fallback, less efficient solutions are being considered.
  For the time being, semaphores should not be used in programs that
  are intended to run on all the Intel x86 line, including the 386.

- The current implementations of the MIPS support assumes a MIPS ISA II
  processor or better.  These processors support atomic operations by
  ll/sc instructions.  Older R2000/R3000 series processors are not
  supported yet; support for these will have higher overhead.

- Mutexes, conditions, semaphores cannot be shared between processes.
  This optional component of the Posix standard is not obvious to
  implement efficiently (i.e. without reverting to SystemV IPCs)
  and does not seem terribly useful to me. If you need to synchronize
  processes (with distinct address spaces), you'd be better off
  with traditional Unix synchronization tools (pipes, sockets, SystemV
  IPCs, etc.)
